Successive Overrelaxation Method Safaa J. Kasbah1, Ramzi A. Haraty1, and Issam W. Damaj2 Introduction “Surely the first and oldest problems in every branch of mathematics spring from experience and are suggested by the world of external phenomena” . At the age of 2 or 3, we study addition by assembling collection of objects and counting them. At the age of 4 or 5, we start using an abstract mathematical construction, a model, known as the positive integers . Later, in elementary school, we start using more complicated constructions known as operators. Apparently, these early taught math- ematical constructions form the basis of our understanding of a variety of problems. As mathematical problems become more complex, it might be still possible to find their solutions by means of available computing devices. However, there are several mathematical problems whose solutions are difficult to be realized using available computing power [3-5]. Examples of such problems are factoring very large numbers (RSA depends on this problem’s computational difficulty) , find- ing the solution to partial differential equations , and deciding whether a knot in 3-dimensional Euclidean space is unknotted (topological problem) . More of such problems can be found in [4-5, 8-10]. Complex problems in science and engi- neering, including the ones above, are computationally intensive in nature . Fac- toring very large numbers can be achieved by computation only, since the underly- ing algorithmic procedures are well known. The same is true for solving partial differential equations or studying the topological unknotted problem and for thou- sands scientific and engineering endeavors. Several attempts to accelerate the com- putation of such complex mathematical problems have been motivated with the enormous advances in computing systems. Many physical phenomena can be expressed as systems of linear equations. Nu- merical solutions for these equations allow us to glean valuable information about 1 Safaa J. Kasbah and Ramzi A. Haraty Division of Computer Science and Mathematics, Lebanese American University, Beirut, Leba- non 2 Issam W. Damaj Department of Electrical and Computer Engineer, Dhofar University, Salalah, Sultanate of Oman 2 Reconfigurable Hardware Implementation of the SOR Method the system at hand. There are two basic approaches for solving linear systems: Di- rect Methods and Iterative Methods. In the first approach, a finite number of oper- ations are performed to find the exact solution. In the second approach, an initial approximate of the solution is generated, then this initial guess is used to generate another approximate solution, which is more accurate than the previous one The robustness of applying iterative methods over direct methods is shown in dif- ferent areas including: circuit analysis and design, weather forecasting and analyz- ing financial market trends. The well-known iterative methods are: Gauss-Seidel, Multigrid, Jacobi and Suc- cessive Over- Relaxation (SOR) which is of a interest in this chapter. SOR has been devised to accelerate the convergence of Gauss-Seidel and Jacobi , by intro- ducing a new parameter,𝜔, referred to as the relaxation factor. The SOR rate of convergence is highly dependent on the relaxation factor. The main difficulty of using SOR is finding a good estimate of the relaxation factor . Several tech- niques have been proposed for determining the exact value of 𝜔 which accelerates the rate of convergence of the method . All available iterative methods packages, including SOR, are done in software. Examples are the: ITPACK 3A, ITPACK 3B, ITPACK 2C, ITPACK 2D, and the ELLPACK package . Several sequential and parallel techniques were used in these packages to accelerate the method . The emergence of the new computing paradigm, Reconfigurable Computing (RC), introduces novel techniques for accelerating certain classes of applications including signal processing (e.g., weather forecasting, seismic data processing, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), adaptive filters), cryptography and DNA matching . RC-systems combine the flexibility offered by software and the per- formance offered by hardware . It requires a reconfigurable hardware, such as an FPGA, and a software design environment that aids in the creation of configura- tions for the reconfigurable hardware . In , the first hardware implementation of an iterative method- the Multigrid- is presented. The speedup achieved demonstrates that hardware design can be suited for such computationally intensive applications. Toward proving the hypothesis that accelerated versions of the iterative methods can be realized in hardware, we under- took the first hardware implementation of the SOR method; using the same FPGAs that were used in [19-21]. In this chapter, we study the feasibility of implementing SOR in reconfigurable hardware. We use Handel-C, a higher-level design tool to code our design, which is analyzed, synthesized, and placed an