Methodology The SysML-Sec methodology adopts a three-phase approach that ﬁrst deals with the system analysis, then with software design, and ﬁnally with system validation, as depicted in . The analysis includes the elicitation of requirements and attacks, and the partitioning of the system. The design stage includes the deﬁnition of security mechanisms, and the reﬁnement of security requirements in security properties to be proved in the design. Lastly, the veriﬁcation takes place at different engineering phases, as follows. Simulation is mostly used at the partitioning stage in order to evaluate the impact of security 1SysML-Sec does not address hardware design 18 SysML-Sec mechanisms in terms or performance. Formal veriﬁcation intends to prove the resilience of the system under design to threats. Testing is meant to do the same, but on the deployed implementation resulting from the design models. y-chart Attacks Requirements Application Architecture Application mapped on architecture System design mapping Simulation, Formal verification Testing : SysML-Sec methodology 3.3 Tooling TTool is a free software supporting several UML proﬁles, e.g., DIPLODOCUS and AVATAR. For the partitioning stage, SysML-Sec reuses DIPLODOCUS, as explained in . Requirements, attacks, and design are analyzed with AVATAR, a proﬁle dedicated to the analysis and modeling of embedded systems . 4 Case Study: Firmware Update We illustrate SysML-Sec methodological stages with a "ﬁrmware update" case study. The latter is taken from a public deliverable of the European project EVITA . The main purpose of EVITA is to deﬁne a secure architecture for automotive embedded systems. Such systems are in charge of critical functions and are quite complex: they contain around 100 Electronic Controls Units (ECUs) all interconnected to the main system bus (CAN, FlexRay). Attacks are motivated by safety and economical reasons (notably theft). Security concerns, which were mostly related with physical access to the car are also evolving today with the advent of the connected car and of Car2X communications, which further exposes these systems. The considered case study aims at the update of an ECU software with a newer version of the ﬁrmware, as performed at a service station through diagnosis tools. Car diagnosis is hardwired accord- ing to the Standard Uniﬁed Diagnosis Services UDS, which is speciﬁed in the ISO 14229-1. At ﬁrst, the ECU to be ﬂashed initializes its software and starts the diagnosis function. The service station employee connects his diagnosis tool to the on-board diagnosis interface in the vehicle. Once the diagnosis has been performed and authentication is performed, a programming session is settled. Finally, the ﬂashing can be performed in ROM. The overall process is expected to be secure, in particular with respect to integrity, conﬁdentiality, and authenticity of the ﬁrmware and/or of the ﬂashing process. More speciﬁcally, the following security requirements can be deﬁned (see for further details): • Authenticity: is the vehicle sure to communicate with a valid diagnosis Tool? L. Apvrille, Y. Roudier 19 • Conﬁdentiality: the ﬁrmware constitutes intellectual property to protect. • Data Integrity: the ﬂashed code must not have been modiﬁed. • Anonymity: Private information about the driver should not be disclosed to the service station during the ﬂashing process. 5 System Requirement Engineering and Analysis The security requirement and threat analysis is mostly regarded as a preamble to risk analysis in IT systems. This process is generally meant to decide whether to introduce security countermeasures into the system, which means additional costs. In the case of embedded systems, we contend that the security analysis also has a strong impact on the system architecture and its realtime performance: the security requirements and threat analysis should thus be performed along an iterative, and therefore more agile partitioning process. 5.1 Iterative Security/System Codesign Process System partitioning, security requirements, and threats are progressively reﬁned based on one or several typical use cases. The following phases, which thus start with an initial architecture, are iterated in order to reach a satisfactory level of reﬁnement: Initial Architecture Mapping. The functionalities of the system highlighted in these use cases are ﬁrst modeled as tasks. Exchanges between functions are modeled with information and event ﬂows between tasks. Tasks and communications can then be mapped to a draft architecture of the system. The designer’s experience plays a key role in determining the ﬁrst draft of the architecture. Architecture Analysis System assets are identiﬁed among architectural elements (processors, pieces of software, sensors, hardware accelerators, communication channels) and will ﬁrst refer to generic components, like for example: "all system buses". When the architecture gets more detailed, assets are more likely to be reﬁne