Object detection is a fundamental and heavily-researched task in computer vision. Until re- cently, the sliding window paradigm was dominant , especially for face and pedestrian detection. Deformable part models followed this framework but allowed for more object variability and thus found success across general object categories; likewise, Sermanet et al. showcased the use of CNNs for general object detection in a sliding window fashion. More recent detectors follow the region-proposal paradigm established by Girshick et al. in which a CNN is used to classify regions generated by an object proposal algo- rithm . Many recent detectors follow this setup , including our own work, which uses the Fast R-CNN detector as its staring point . We next discuss in more detail speciﬁc innovations in this paradigm and how they relate to our approach. Context: Context is known to play an important role in visual recognition . Numer- ous ideas for exploiting context in CNNs have been proposed. Sermanet et al. used two contextual regions centered on each object for pedestrian detection. In , in addition to region speciﬁc features, features from the entire image are used to improve region classiﬁca- tion. He et al. implement context in a more implicit way by aggregating CNN features prior to classiﬁcation using different sized pooling regions. More recently, proposed to use ten contextual regions around each object with different crops. Our approach is most related to , however, we use just four contextual regions organized in a foveal structure and importantly our classiﬁer is trained jointly end-to-end. Skip connections: Sermanet et al. proposed to use a ‘multi-stage’ classiﬁer that used features at many convolutional layers for pedestrian detection, showing improved results. Such ‘skip’ architectures have recently become popular for semantic segmentation . Concurrently with our work, Bell et al. proposed to revisit skip connections for general object detection. Our own implementation of skip connections closely resembles . Object Proposals: When originally introduced, object proposals were based on low- level grouping cues, edges, and superpixels . More recently, large gains in proposal quality have been achieved through use of CNNs . In this work we use DeepMask segmentation proposals . Speciﬁcally, we used an early version of the im- proved variant of DeepMask described in that includes top-down reﬁnement but is based on the VGG-A architecture , not the later ResNet architecture presented in . Overall, we obtain substantial improvements in detection accuracy on COCO by using DeepMask in place of the Selective Search proposals used in the original work on Fast R-CNN . Classiﬁer: The CNN used for classiﬁcation forms an integral part of the detection pipeline and is key in determining ﬁnal detector accuracy. The ﬁeld has witnessed rapid progress in CNNs in recent years. The introduction of AlexNet reinvigorated the use of deep learning for visual recognition. The much deeper VGG and GoogleNet models further pushed accuracy. In our work we use variants of the VGG network , speciﬁcally VGG-A for DeepMask and VGG-D for our MultiPath network. In concurrent work, He at al. introduced the even deeper Residual Networks (ResNet) that have greatly improved the state of the art and have also proven effective for object detection. We expect that integration of ResNet into our system could further boost accuracy.