FORMULATION To study the cooling control optimization problem, in this section we utilize a simulation model to present a cooling con- trol optimization problem formulation. The simulation model is based on the widely adopted building energy simulation platform EnergyPlus . Although the model is largely simpliﬁed, it does capture the major cooling dynamics and is thus adequate for studying the cooling control optimization. A. Simulation System Model The model is based on a simulation example provided by EnergyPlus. As illustrated in , the model consists of two server zones (z1 and z2) and their associated cooling . System architecture: a DC consists of two server zones, z1 and z2, and their associated and independently operated cooling facilities. For z1 direct expansion (DX) cooling system is used and for z2 chiller plant cooling system is used. . The main components of DX and chiller cooling system. The temperatures at ﬁve outlet ports (marked as open circles) are served as the temperature set-points: Tdec, Tiec, Tcw, Tdx, and Tch. systems. The two zones are different in size, location, and their corresponding cooling systems. In the following, we describe the cooling system with a focus on identifying the state space (parameters that characterize the system), the action space (control variables), and the reward counters (optimization objectives), while omitting the details of the facility structures and operation processes that are unrelated to problem setup (yet might be critical parts of the overall system). 1) Data Center Model – State Space and Reward: The DC has two server zones placed side by side, z1 and z2, with each zone being a standalone server room. The two zones are different in size ( 15.24*15.24m2 and 15.24*17.00m2 for z1 and z2, respectively) but similar in other construction aspects. The heat in each zone is generated by IT equipment (ITE) and other sources (such as illuminations), with ITE as the dominant heat source. The load of the ITE is deﬁned as α · L, where L is the designed load density (per square meter) and α is a load factor that varies at different time slots. In our simulation, we use a public trace collected from Wikimedia to set α to be the same for z1 and z2 while using different load density 4kw and 2kw for z1 and z2 respectively. The heat generated by the illumination is assumed to be a constant (per square meter) as the lights inside the DC are on all the time. Also, there is heat generated by the human workers in the DC. This part varies according to the work schedule. A notable simpliﬁcation of the simulation is that each data zone is modeled as a single point-heat source. This is less accurate compared to the CFD based thermal analysis. We leave a ﬁner-grained model for future work. We note that even with a ﬁner-grained model, the proposed framework and algorithm will remain the same, albeit with much larger state space and action space. In the context of the RL framework, we use a tuple of workload level and the ambient temperature to represent the state, since both of them affect the cooling load. We use the 4 tuple of PUE and the IT equipment outlet temperature of each zone to compute the reward. In the context of the DC cooling, PUE needs to be minimized and the outlet temperature needs to be kept within a speciﬁc range. 2) Cooling System Model: Action Space: In the target simulation model, z1 and z2 are equipped with different cooling systems: direct expansion (DX) cooling system for z1 and chilled water (chiller) cooling system for z2. Both cooling systems are supplied with cool water from a cooling tower, but they use the cool water in different ways. In the DX system, the cool water passes through coils and cool down the airﬂow passing over the coils. In the chiller system, the cool water is used ﬁrst to refrigerate another water stream (chilled water), which in turn cools down the airﬂow supplied to the DC. The main components of these two cooling systems are shown in . In the DX cooling system, the intake ambient air ﬂow is ﬁrst cooled by two types of evaporative coolers: directive (DEC) and indirect (IEC), and then passes over the DX cooling coils and is further fed to the DC. The underlying control algorithm in EnergyPlus (referred as the DefaultE+ control algorithm) uses the following ﬁve set- points to control the cooling system: DEC outlet temperature (airﬂow) Tdec, IEC outlet temperature (airﬂow) Tiec, chilled water loop outlet temperature (water ﬂow) Tcw, DX cooling coil outlet temperature (airﬂow) Tdx, and chiller cooling air loop outlet temperature (airﬂow) Tch. The DefaultE+ algorithm relies on a ﬁxed zone temperature set-point setting, and then compute the settings of the ﬁve set-points based on the knowledge of the underlying system dynamics with the load and weather information. In our proposed learning algorithm, the same ﬁve set-points are used as control variables, but, on the contrary, they are learned from the pre-collected data trace. Ne