Enhancement Convolutional Neural Network (QE-CNN) method that does not require any modiﬁcation of the encoder to achieve quality enhancement for HEVC. In particular, our QE-CNN method learns QE-CNN-I and QE-CNN-P models to reduce the distortion of HEVC I and P/B frames, respectively. The proposed method differs from the existing CNN-based quality enhancement approaches, which only handle intra-coding distortion and are thus not suitable for P/B frames. Our experimental results validate that our QE-CNN method is effective in enhancing quality for both I and P/B frames of HEVC videos. To apply our QE-CNN method in time-constrained scenarios, we further propose a Time-constrained Quality Enhancement Optimization (TQEO) scheme. Our TQEO scheme controls the computational time of QE-CNN to meet a target, meanwhile maximizing the quality enhancement. Next, the experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our TQEO scheme from the aspects of time control accuracy and quality enhancement under different time constraints. Finally, we design a prototype to implement our TQEO scheme in a real-time scenario. Index Terms—HEVC, quality enhancement, convolutional neu- ral network I. INTRODUCTION T HE High Efﬁciency Video Coding (HEVC) standard was ofﬁcially issued in January 2013, and it has signiﬁ- cantly improved the efﬁciency of video coding. HEVC is able to achieve a bit-rate saving of approximately 60% with similar subjective quality compared with the previous H.264/AVC standard. However, when stored or transmitted at low bit-rates, HEVC videos also incur artifacts, such as blocking artifacts, ringing effects, blurring, and so forth. Such artifacts may cause severe degradation in the Quality of Experience (QoE) at the decoder side. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate how to enhance the visual quality of HEVC videos at the decoder side. Over the past decade, there have been increasing interests in enhancing the visual quality of decoded images – . Recently, deep learning approaches have been successfully applied in enhancing the visual quality of decoded images. For example, Dong et al. designed a four-layer Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) , named AR-CNN, for signiﬁ- cantly improving the quality of JPEG images. Afterwards, other deep networks, e.g., D3 and TNRD , were proposed to reduce the JPEG artifacts. Ren Yang, Mai Xu, Tie Liu, Zulin Wang and Zhenyu Guan are with Beihang University, China. This work is supported by NSFC under Grant number 61573037. Mai Xu is the corresponding author of this paper (e-mail: Maixu@buaa.edu.cn). For enhancing the quality of HEVC videos, some works – develop advanced postprocessing ﬁlters for the HEVC encoder. In particular, Park and Kim , designed a CNN to replace the Sample Adaptive Offset (SAO) ﬁlter in the HEVC encoder and decoder. Later, based on AR-CNN , Dai et al. proposed the VRCNN structure to replace the in-loop ﬁlters in HEVC intra-coding, achieving 4.6% bit-rate reduction. However, only handles the intra-mode coding of HEVC, in which the distortions of inter-coding frames, i.e., P/B frames, are not taken into consideration. More importantly, these approaches require modiﬁcation at the encoder side, so that they are not suitable for enhancing the quality of already compressed videos. Most recently, a deep network, called DCAD , has been designed to improve the coding efﬁciency of HEVC by enhancing the quality of HEVC compressed videos at the decoder side. Nevertheless, the DCAD approach uses the same CNN model to enhance both intra- and inter- coding frames, and the CNN model is learnt from HEVC compressed images only. Therefore, the DCAD approach does not take the difference between intra- and inter-coding distortion into account, and thus it cannot effectively reduce the artifacts of both I and P/B frames. In this paper, we propose a novel Quality Enhancement CNN (QE-CNN) for enhancing HEVC quality at the decoder side. Our QE-CNN method has the speciﬁc architectures for HEVC intra- and inter-coding frames, respectively. Consequently, QE-CNN is able to extract distortion features of both intra- and inter- coding, and is effective for enhancing the quality of both I and P/B frames in HEVC videos. Moreover, it is worth pointing out that the HEVC encoder does not need to be modiﬁed when applying our QE-CNN method at the decoder side. Unfortunately, the cost of visual quality enhancement is increased computational time , , particularly for CNN- based approaches. Currently, the computational capacity of devices has dramatically improved, thus enabling video quality enhancement. However, the computational time is still limited for quality enhancement of HEVC, especially in real-time applications or for devices with low computational capacity. It is thus desirable to consider a time constraint when applying our QE-CNN method to enhance video quality for HEVC. To this end, we further propose a Time-constrained Quality Enhancement Optimization (TQEO) scheme. Speciﬁc