the Image obtained from VGGNet. Both agents are based on HRED models and they show that agents ﬁne-tuned with Re- inforcement Learning (RL) outperform agents trained solely with supervised learning. Mostafazadeh et al. (2017) train both generative and discriminative deep neural models on the Image-Grounded Conversations (IGC) dataset, where the task is to generate questions and answers to carry on a mean- ingful conversation. De Vries et al. (2017) train HRED-based models on GuessWhat?! dataset in which agents have to play a guessing game where one player has to ﬁnd an object in the picture which the other player knows about and can answer questions about them. Moving from image-based dialogue to video-based dia- logue adds further complexity and challenges. Limited avail- ability of such data is one of the challenges. Apart from the AVSD dataset, there does not exist a video dialogue dataset to the best of our knowledge and the AVSD data itself is fairly limited in size. Extracting relevant features from videos also contains the inherent complexity of extracting features from individual frames and additionally requires understanding their temporal interaction. The temporal nature of videos also makes it important to be able to focus on a varying-length subset of video frames as the action which is being asked about might be happening within them. There is also the need to encode the additional modality of audio which would be required for answering questions that rely on the audio track. With limited size of publicly available datasets based on the visual modality, learning useful features from high dimen- sional visual data has been a challenge even for the VisDial dataset, and we anticipate this to be an even more signiﬁcant challenge on the AVSD dataset as it involves videos. On the AVSD task, Hori et al. (2018) train an attention- based audio-visual scene-aware dialogue model which we use as the baseline model for this paper. They divide each video into multiple equal-duration segments and, from each of them, extract video features using an I3D (Carreira and Zisserman 2017) model, and audio features using a VGGish (Hershey et al. 2017) model. The I3D model was pre-trained on Ki- netics (Kay et al. 2017) dataset and the VGGish model was pre-trained on Audio Set (Gemmeke et al. 2017). The base- line encodes the current utterance’s question with a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber 1997) and uses the encoding to attend to the audio and video features from all the video segments and to fuse them together. The dialogue history is modelled with a hierarchical recurrent LSTM encoder where the input to the lower level encoder is a concatenation of question-answer pairs. The fused feature representation is concatenated with the question encoding and the dialogue history encoding and the resulting vector is used to decode the current answer using an LSTM decoder. Similar to the VisDial models, the performance difference between the best model that uses text and the best model that uses both text and video features is small. This indicates that the language is a stronger prior here and the baseline model is unable to make good use of the highly relevant video. Automated evaluation of both task-oriented and non-task- oriented dialogue systems has been a challenge (Sharma et al. 2017; Liu et al. 2016) too. Most such dialogue systems are evaluated using per-turn evaluation metrics since there is