3. Methodology We estimate 3D joints J = {j}K 1 and surface vertices T = {t}C 1 from a single RGB image I , where j,t ∈ R3, and K and C are the number of body joints and surface points, respectively. We deﬁne L ⊂ T as a set of sparse surface landmarks and JL as a concatenation of the two matrices. In order to compute a detailed mesh, we use SMPL model . Our goal is to estimate SMPL parameters from im- age I using deep learning without directly regressing them. This way, we avoid possible artifacts while keeping the ar- chitecture ﬂexible in the lack or presence of 3D ground truth data. Our network contains three main modules shown in . First, joint and landmark locations are estimated by any chosen CNN (JLCNN). Afterwards, DAE ﬁlters struc- tured error or lifts 2D to 3D (JLDAE). Finally, SMPLR recovers pose and shape from the predictions of the previ- ous module and reconstructs a detailed body mesh and 3D joints. Next, we explain DAE and SMPLR in detail. 3.1. SMPL review SMPL is a statistical parametric function M (β,θ;Φ) which maps shape parameters β and axis-angle pose param- eters θ into vertices T, given learnt model parameters Φ. Given a template average body mesh with vertices T∗ and a dataset of scanned bodies, two sets of principal compo- nents S = [S1,...,S∣β∣] ∈ R3C×∣β∣ and P = [P1,...,P9K] ∈ R3C×9K are learnt to form model parameters Φ (where ∣β∣ = 10, C = 6890 and K = 24). Then, template shape ver- tices T∗ can be morphed to T∗ s by vec−1 3,C(S×β)+T∗ where vec−1(.) is a reshaping operator. Bases Pi are responsible for small pose-based displacements due to body soft-tissue behavior and have small contribution in the shape deforma- tion. Given a kinematic tree (i.e. ) a set of relative rotation matrices R = [R1,...,RK] ∈ R3×3 are computed for each joint with respect to their parents. Each Ri is a function of θi ∈ R3 and is computed based on Rodrigues formulation. These rotation matrices are mainly used be- cause of two reasons: i) to pose the mesh by rotating body parts relatively in the kinematic tree, and ii) to update the template shape in rest pose θ∗ by basis Pi. Rotations are applied based on joints. Nevertheless, joints are a function of body shape, therefore they need to be computed before posing the model. This is done by a regressor matrix J (as part of parameters Φ) from updated vertices T∗ s. Please read for more detailed explanations of the SMPL. SMPL model has several characteristics. First, it is dif- ferentiable, which yields the possibility to be used along with deep networks. Secondly, it does not constrain in- valid pose and shape values and, thus, it is a many-to-one function. This means that given an RGB image, end-to-end training of a CNN from scratch with SMPL attached on top may converge to a non-optimal solution. One of the main reasons of this is the usage of Rodrigues formulation and axis-angle pose parameters, as it is known not to be unique (periodicity of θ). A possible solution is to directly use ro- tation matrices as proposed in . Finally, SMPL is a generative model which allows us to generate mocap-like data for free. Also, it can be used to generate synthetic re- alistic images . 3.2. SMPL reverse A natural way of embedding SMPL in a deep network is to estimate β and θ given image I and feed them to SMPL. However, this is a challenging task because of the afore- mentioned many-to-one property, plus the noise sensitivity of the model. Besides, direct regression of SMPL parame- ters may generate artifacts . Instead, researchers use intermediate representations like 2D joints and body silhou- ette or body segments to regress SMPL parame- ters. Although such data is easier to annotate from RGB images than SMPL data, they provide sub-optimal mapping to SMPL parameters, because 1) estimating 3D from 2D is an ill-posed problem, and 2) the loss is computed from noisy back-projected 2D estimations. In this paper, we in- stead propose an autoencoder-like scheme, i.e. the input 3D data is recovered in the output, while pose and shape are obtained in the encoder and SMPL is taken as decoder. We refer to this model as SMPL reverse (SMPLR, see ). This design has several beneﬁts: SMPLR can be trained 1) without the need of constraints on SMPL, 2) indepen- dent to RGB data using millions of generated 3D mocap- like data, and 3) end-to-end with a CNN. All of these pro- vide simplicity and ﬂexibility in the design and training of the entire network. In the results section we show that SMPLR formulation can generate more accurate estima- tions than state-of-the-art SMPL-based alternatives. Fur- : Landmarks and assigned kinematic tree in red (blue is original SMPL kinematic tree). Pelvis is set as root. thermore, SMPLR acts as a strong regularization on CNN model when trained end-to-end and it enhances the internal coherence among joints for CNN predictions. In sec. 4.5 we propose an effective incremental training for this task. We model SMPLR encoder with deep MLP networks. We des