BASELINE CNN APPROACH AND LINEAR ADAP- TATION We ﬁrst introduce a standard convolution neural network (CNN) for person independent gaze estimation. We then show the resulting bias existing for unknown individuals, and present a baseline linear adaptation method to solve it. 3.1 Gaze estimation with CNN Network structure. presents the standard NN struc- ture for gaze estimation. It consists of three convolutional layers and two fully connected layers1. More precisely, the input eye image I ∈ RM×N×C, where (M, N, C) = (48, 72, 3) denote the dimensions and number of channels of the image, is ﬁrst whitened. The convolutional layers are then applied and the resulting feature maps are ﬂattened to be fed into the fully-connected layers. The predicted gaze direction gp(I) ∈ R2×1 is regressed at the last layer. The details of the network parameters can be found in the ﬁgure. Loss function. Denoting the gaze groundtruth of an eye image I by ggt(I), we used the following L1 loss function: L = 1 |D| X I∈D ∥gp(I) − ggt(I)∥1, (1) where D denotes the training dataset and | · | denotes the cardinality operator. Network training. For eye images in the dataset, we ﬁrst resize them into a ﬁxed resolution s = 48 × 72. Concretely, we up-sample the images using bilinear interpolation if their sizes are smaller than s (MPIIGaze dataset). Otherwise, we randomly crop patches with size s around eyes (EYEDIAP dataset). The input has either three channels for color im- ages as shown in , or one channel for gray scale images. The network is optimized with Adam method, with a learning rate initially set to 0.001 and then divided by 2 after each epoch. In our experiment, 10 epochs are applied and proved to be sufﬁcient. The mini batch size is 128. 3.2 Bias analysis and baseline linear adaptation method Because each individual eye has speciﬁc characteristics (in- cluding internal non-visible dimensions or structures), in practice, we often observe a data bias between the network regression gp(I) and the labeled groundtruth ggt(I) of the eye images I ∈ DT est belonging to a single person. This is illustrated in , which provides a scatter plot of the (gp(I), ggt(I)) angle pairs in typical cases, which can be compared with the identity mapping (black lines). As can be observed, there is usually a linear relationship between ggt(I) and gp(I), which is illustrated by the red lines in the plots. Thus, when a set Dc of sample calibration points of a user (usually 9 to 25 points) is available, it is possible to learn this relation and obtain an adapted gaze model gad by ﬁtting a linear model gad(I) = A gp(I) + B (2) where A ∈ R2×2 and B ∈ R1×2 are the linear parameters of the model which can be estimated through least mean square error (LMSE) optimization using the calibration data. 4 PROPOSED DIFFERENTIAL APPROACH 4.1 Approach overview. The linear adaptation above allows to correct biases from the gaze output, but this does not really account for the speci- ﬁcity of a user’s eye, nor was the network trained to take into account the presence of biases. The method we propose 1. Note that it is slightly different from . PAMI SHORT 4 (a) (b) : Scatter plot of the network regression (X-axis) and labelled groundtruth (Y-axis) of the yaw (left plot) and pitch (right plot) angles for an individual eye taken in the (a) EYEDIAP dataset; and (b) MPIIGaze dataset. CNN Block Feature Map 32@22*34 Feature Map 32@9*15 Feature Map 64@6*12 Conv 5*5 BN+ReLU MaxPooling Conv 5*5 BN+ReLU MaxPooling Conv 4*4 BN+ReLU Inputs 2 3@48*72 Shared Weights Inputs 1 3@48*72 Feature Map 9216 Concatenate Feature Map 256 ReLU Dropout(0.5) Output 2 F2 C1 C2 F1 C3 F3 : The designed differential network. aims at solving these issues. It is illustrated in . Its main part is a differential network designed and trained to predict the differences in gaze direction between two images of the same eye. At test time, the gaze differences between the input eye image and a calibration set of reference images are computed ﬁrst. Then the gaze of the eye image is estimated by adding these gaze differences to the reference gazes. The calibration set could further be used to adapt the network by ﬁne-tuning so that is makes better differential predictions between reference sample pairs. The details of the different components are introduced in the following paragraphs. 4.2 Differential network architecture. The network we use is illustrated in . Each branch in the parallel structure is composed of three convolutional neural layers, all of them followed by batch normalization and ReLU units. Max pooling is applied after the ﬁrst and second layers for reducing the image dimensions. After the third layer, the feature maps of the two input images are ﬂatted and concatenated into a new tensor. Then two fully-connected layers are applied on the tensor to predict the gaze difference between the two input images. Thus, where traditional siamese approaches would predict the gaze for each image, and compute t