Architecture and implementation choices Project scope SciPy provides fundamental algorithms for scientiﬁc computing. The breadth of its scope was derived from the Guide to Available Mathematical Software classiﬁcation system (GAMS70). In areas that move relatively slowly, e.g. linear algebra, SciPy aims to provide complete coverage. In other areas it aims to provide fundamental building blocks while interacting well with other packages specialized in that area. For example, SciPy provides what one expects to ﬁnd in a statistics textbook (probability distributions, hypothesis tests, frequency statistics, correlation functions, and more), while Statsmodels71 provides more advanced statistical estimators and inference methods; scikit-learn3 covers machine learning; and PyMC372, emcee73 and PyStan74 cover Bayesian statistics and probabilistic modeling. scikit-image4 provides image processing capabilities beyond SciPy’s ndimage, SymPy75 provides a Python interface for symbolic computation, and while sparse.csgraph or spatial offers basic tools for working with graphs and networks compared to a more specialized Python library like NetworkX76. 5/22 We use the following criteria to determine whether or not to include new functionality in SciPy: • The algorithm is of relevance to multiple ﬁelds of science. • The algorithm is demonstrably important. For example, it is classic enough to be included in textbooks, or it is based on a peer-reviewed article which has a signiﬁcant number of citations. In terms of software systems and architecture, SciPy’s scope matches NumPy’s: algorithms for in-memory computing on single machines, with support for a wide range of data types and process architectures. Distributed computing and support for graphics processing units (GPUs) are explicitly out of scope. Package organization The SciPy library is organized as a collection of subpackages. The 16 subpackages include mathematical building blocks (e.g. linear algebra, Fourier transforms, special functions), data structures (e.g. sparse matrices, k-D trees), algorithms (e.g. numerical optimization and integration, clustering, interpolation, graph algorithms, computational geometry), and higher-level data analysis functionality (e.g. signal and image processing, statistical methods). Here we summarize the scope and capabilities of each subpackage. cluster The cluster subpackage contains cluster.vq, which provides vector quantization and k-means algo- rithms, and cluster.hierarchy, which provides functions for hierarchical and agglomerative clustering. constants Physical and mathematical constants, including the CODATA recommended values of the fundamental physical constants77. fftpack Fast Fourier Transform routines. In addition to the FFT itself, the subpackage includes functions for the discrete sine and cosine transforms and for pseudo-differential operators. integrate The integrate subpackage provides tools for the numerical computation of single and multiple deﬁnite integrals and for the solution of ordinary differential equations, including initial value problems and two-point boundary value problems. interpolate The interpolate subpackage contains spline functions and classes, one-dimensional and multi-dimensional (univariate and multivariate) interpolation classes, Lagrange and Taylor polynomial interpolators, and wrap- pers for FITPACK78 and DFITPACK functions. io A collection of functions and classes for reading and writing MATLAB38, IDL, Matrix Market79, Fortran, NetCDF80, Harwell-Boeing81, WAV and ARFF data ﬁles. linalg Linear algebra functions, including elementary functions of a matrix, such as the trace, determinant, norm and condition number; basic solver for Ax = b; specialized solvers for Toeplitz matrices, circulant matrices, triangular matrices and other structured matrices; least squares solver and pseudo-inverse calculations; eigenvalue and eigenvector calculations (basic and generalized); matrix decompositions, including Cholesky, Schur, Hessenberg, LU, LDL⊺, QR, QZ, singular value, and polar; and functions to create specialized matrices, such as diagonal, Toeplitz, Hankel, companion, Hilbert, and more. ndimage This subpackage contains various functions for multi-dimensional image processing, including convolution and assorted linear and nonlinear ﬁlters (Gaussian ﬁlter, median ﬁlter, Sobel ﬁlter, etc.); interpolation; region labeling and processing; and mathematical morphology functions. misc A collection of functions that did not ﬁt into the other subpackages. While this subpackage still exists in SciPy 1.0, effort is underway to deprecate or relocate the contents of this subpackage and remove it. odr Orthogonal distance regression, including Python wrappers for the Fortran library ODRPACK82. optimize This subpackage includes simplex and interior-point linear programming solvers, implementations of many nonlinear minimization algorithms, a routine for least-squares curve ﬁtting, and a collection of general non