3. Probabilistic Formulation The parse graph pg is a comprehensive interpretation of the observed image I . The goal of the holistic++ scene understanding is to infer the optimal parse graph pg∗ given I by an MAP estimation: pg∗=arg max pg p(pg|I)=arg max pg p(pg)·p(I|pg) =arg max pg 1 Z exp{−Ephy(pg)−Ehoi(pg)−E(I|pg)}. (1) We model the joint distribution by a Gibbs distribution, where the prior probability of parse graph can be decom- posed into physical prior Ephy(pg) and HOI prior Ehoi(pg); balancing factors are neglected for simplicity. Physical Prior Ephy(pg) represents physical common- sense in a 3D scene. We consider two types of physical re- lations among the terminal nodes: support relation Es and collision relation Ec. Therefore, the energy of physical prior is deﬁned as Ephy(pg)=Es(pg)+Ec(pg). Speciﬁcally: • Support Relation Es(pg) deﬁnes the energy between the supported object/human and the supporting object/layout: Es(pg)= X (vi,vj)∈Es Eo(vi, vj)+Eheight(vi, vj), (2) where Eo(vi, vj)=1−area(vi∩vj)/area(vi) is the overlap- ping ratio in the xy-plane, and Eheight(vi, vj) is the absolute height difference between the lower surface of the supported object vi and the upper surface of the supporting object vj; Eo(vi, vj)=0 when the supporting object is the ﬂoor and Eheight(vi, vj)=0 when the supporting object is the wall. • Physical Collision Ec(pg) denotes the physical violations. We penalize the intersection among human, objects, and room layout except the objects in HOI and objects that could be a container. The potential function is deﬁned as: Ec(pg)= X C(v, Vlayout) v∈(Vobject∪Vhuman) + X C(vi, vj) vi∈Vobject vj∈Vhuman (vi,vj)/∈Ehoi + X C(vi, vj) vi,vj∈Vobject vi,vj /∈Vcontainer , (3) where C() denotes the volume of intersection between en- tities. Vcontainer denotes the objects that can be a container, such as a cabinet, desk, and drawer. Human-object Interaction Prior Ehoi(pg) is deﬁned by the interactions between human and objects: Ehoi(pg)= X (vi,vj)∈Ehoi K(vi, vj, avj), (4) where vi∈Vobject, vj∈Vhuman, and K is an HOI function that evaluates the interaction between an object and a human given the action label a: K(vi, vj, avj)=− log l(vi, vj|avj), (5) where l(vi, vj|avj) is the likelihood of the relative position between node vi and vj given an action label a. We formu- late the action detection as a multi-label classiﬁcation; see Section 5.3 for details. The likelihood l(·) models the dis- tance between key joints and the center of the object; e.g., for “sitting,” it models the relative spatial relation between the hip and the center of a chair. The likelihood can be learned from 3D HOI datasets with a multivariate Gaussian distribu- tion (∆x, ∆y, ∆z)∼N3(µ, Σ), where ∆x, ∆y, and ∆z are the relative distances in the directions of three axes. Likelihood E(I|pg) characterizes the consistency be- tween the observed 2D image and the inferred 3D result. The projected 2D object bounding boxes and human poses can be computed by projecting the inferred 3D objects and human poses onto a 2D image plane. The likelihood is obtained by comparing the directly detected 2D bounding boxes and hu- man poses with projected ones from inferred 3D results: E(I|pg)= X v∈Vobject ·Do(B(v), B′(v))+ X v∈Vhuman ·Dh(Po(v), Po′(v)), (6) where B() and B′() are the bounding boxes of detected and projected 2D objects, Po() and Po′() the poses of detected and projected 2D humans, Do(·) the intersection-over-union (IoU) between the detected 2D bounding box and the convex hull of the projected 3D bounding box, and Dh(·) the aver- age pixel-wise Euclidean distance between two 2D poses. . Examples of typical HOIs and examples from the SHADE dataset. The heatmap indicates the probable locations of HOI. 4. SHADE Dataset We collect SHADE (Synthetic Human Activities with Dynamic Environment), a self-annotated dataset that con- sists of dynamic 3D human skeletons and objects, to learn the prior model for each HOI. It is collected from a video game Grand Theft Auto V with various daily activities and HOIs. Currently, there are over 29 million frames of 3D hu- man poses, where 772,229 frames are annotated. On aver- age, each annotated frame is associated with 2.03 action la- bels and 0.89 HOIs. The SHADE dataset contains 19 ﬁne- grained HOIs for both indoor and outdoor activities. By se- lecting most frequent HOIs and merging similar HOIs, we choose 6 ﬁnal HOIs: read [phone, notebook, tablet], sit-at [human-table relation], sit [human-chair relation], make- phone-call, hold, use-laptop. shows some typical examples and relations in the dataset. 5. Joint Inference Given a single RGB image as the input, the goal of joint inference is to ﬁnd the optimal parse graph that maximizes the posterior probability p(pg|I). The joint parsing is a four- step process: (i) 3D scene initialization of the camera pose, room layout, and 3D object bounding boxes, (ii) 3D human pose initialization that estimates rough 3D human poses in a 3D scene, (iii) con