Methodology 3.1 Quadratic Q-network In our RL formulation, the state space S and the action space A are taken as continuous. The goal of the reinforcement learning is to ﬁnd an optimal policy π∗ : S → A, so that the total return G accumulated over the course of the driving task is maximized. For a given policy π with parameters θ, a Q-value function is used to estimate the total reward from taking action at given state st at time t 2 : Architecture of Quadratic Q-network (left) and action network µ (right). . A value function is used to estimate the total reward from state st. The advantage function is to calculate how much better at is in state st as Aπ(st, at) = Qπ(st, at) − V π(st). (1) In the case where the action space is discrete, we can obtain the optimal action a∗ t with the greedy policy directly by iterating over the action space, as a∗ t = argmaxatQπ(st, at). (2) However, when the action space is continuous, it is not easily ready to apply the basic Q-learning formula to ﬁnd the optimal action. According to the nature of the quadratic equation, if the Q-function Qπ(st, at) has a quadratic form, the optimal action can be obtained analytically and easily. With this idea, we design the Q-function in a quadratic format as Qπ(st, at) = Aπ(st, at) + V π(st) = (µ(st) − at)T M(st)(µ(st) − at) + V (st), (3) where µ(st) is a vector with the same dimension of the action, M(st) is a negatively semi-deﬁnite matrix, and V (st) is considered as a the value function with a scalar value as output. With this special form of Q-function, the optimal action a∗ t can still be obtained in a greedy way as in equation (2) but given by µ(st). (left) depicts the architecture of the quadratic Q-network. M(st) and V (st) are built separately with a single multilayer perceptron (MLP) with two hidden layers. In contrast, µ(st) consists of three MLPs that are combined in a special way. We call µ(st) the action network and give its details in the next subsection. M(st), V (st), and µ(st) are combined in the function fQ which is the equation (3). Note that because any smooth Q-function should be Taylor-expanded in this quadratic format near the greedy action, there is not much loss in generality with this assumption if we stay close to the greedy policy that is being updated in the Q-learning process. 3.2 Action network From equation (3) we can observe that µ(st) plays a critical role in learning the optimal action. If it is purely designed as a neural network with thousands of neurons, it may suffer a hard time learning actions meaningful to a driving policy. Based on this insight, we design the form of µ similar to a PID controller where some tuning parameters are replaced with neural networks. In other words, we do not manually tune the coefﬁcients for the proportional, integral, and derivative terms but use neural networks to automatically ﬁnd the appropriate values based on the deﬁned reward function in RL. This way it makes the controller adaptable to different driving situations, and moreover the output action is based on a long-term goal of the task rather than an action just calculated for a target at current step as in a PID controller. 3 The right graph in shows the design of action network µ(st) where three variables amax, βsen and Ttrs are designed with neural networks, and Equation (4) and (5) show how these variables are combined. To be speciﬁc, from equation (4), we obtain a temporary action based on PID properties, where Ttrs is the output from a neural network and interpreted as a transition time to mitigate errors between current and target states. The temporary value then goes through a hyperbolic tangent activation function in equation (5), where another two parameters, amax and βsen, are learned from neural networks. amax represents a tunable maximum acceleration and βsen indicates a sensitivity factor enforced on the temporary control action. (right) depicts the architecture of µ. atmp = f(∆s) T 2 trs + f ′(∆s) Ttrs (4) a = amax ∗ tanh(βsen ∗ atmp) (5) where ∆s is the state difference between a desired state and the current state. The desired state can be deﬁned conveniently, for example, it can be the target lane ID for the lateral control or the preferred car-following distance for the longitudinal control. The state difference can include values such as relative distance ∆d, relative speed ∆v, and/or relative yaw angle ∆φ. 3.3 Learning procedure There are two iterative loops in learning the policy. One is a simulation loop where it provides the environment that the vehicle agent interacts with, and the other one is a update loop in which the neural network weights are updated. In the simulation loop, we use µ(st) to obtain the greedy action for a given state st at step t. The greedy action is then perturbed with a Gaussian noise nt to increase its exploration and executed in the simulation. After the execution, we get a new state st+1 as well as a reward rt from the environment, and store the transition 