Methodology We ﬁrst formulate the zero-shot action classiﬁcation and describe the static action signature in Section 3.1. In Sec- tion 3.2, we then introduce dynamic action signatures for zero-shot problem and highlight the differences with the static counterpart. Then, in Section 3.3, we include a brief overview of ﬁnite state machines which are augmented to implement dynamic action signatures as described in Sec- tion 3.4. Finally, in Section 3.5, we introduce how the same framework can be extended to model complex activities as sequences of actions to solve zero-shot temporal activity segmentation applications. 3.1 Zero-shot Action Classiﬁcation and Static Action Signatures The goal of the zero-shot action classiﬁcation task is to discriminate between a set of action categories Y = {y1, . . . , yN} that the classiﬁer has never encountered in its training data. It is assumed in this setting that although we have no example videos from the unseen categories, the cat- egories themselves are known to the user. Thus, zero-shot action recognition methods require mapping both a video x = (x1, . . . , xT ) and a label y to a shared feature space— speciﬁcally, one in which a video’s representation is closest to that of its ground-truth label under some similarity func- tion s: ygt = arg max y∈Y s(f(y), g(x)) (1) In general this space can be abstract. For example, the video’s mapping function g can be derived from visual fea- tures, and the label’s mapping function f can be derived from a word vector representation. Attribute-based zero-shot methods deﬁne this space so it corresponds to a set of semantic concepts {a1, . . . , aK}. In this case the label’s representation is a K-dimensional “ac- tion signature” a(y), whose elements are set to one if the attribute is present or zero if it is not. Likewise, the video’s representation is a set of attribute detections ˆa(x) ∈ RK. 3.2 Dynamic Action Signatures Previous work has deﬁned the label’s action signature as a single vector, and reduced either the video representation or the similarity function along the time dimension. However, : The ﬁgure illustrates how our framework scores an example observation with two frames. The ‘Logic’ acceptor describes the dynamic signature of “present, then absent”. The ‘Observation’ transducer produces a time series of detection probabilities. The sum of paths in the composed machine can be viewed as a compatibility score of the logic and the observation. In this particular example, the sum of weights in the ‘Composed‘ transducer is large which suggests that our observation is well- aligned with ‘person disappears’ dynamic action signature. Please refer to Sections 3.3 and 3.4 for notation deﬁnitions. in many scenarios the actions of interest are distinguished by their time evolution rather than the presence or absence of static signatures. Take “person entering a vehicle” and “per- son exiting a vehicle”, for example. Both of these actions share the static action signature vehicle present and person present. However, they are differentiated from each other by what happens to the person over time—in an entering action the person disappears into the vehicle, but in an exiting action the person appears out of it. In this paper, we make a very natural extension to this approach by extending an action signature in the temporal dimension. This gives us a dynamic action signature of the form a(y) = (a(y, 1), . . . , a(y, T)) that may change over time. In the case that the value of an action signature is spec- iﬁed for every sample t, the best category y∗ can be chosen using a straightforward sample-wise comparison: y∗ = arg max y∈Y s(ˆa(x), a(y)) = arg max y∈Y T X t=1 σ(ˆa(xt), a(y, t)) (2) In , σ(·, ·) implements a sample-level similarity score—for example, the inner product. Our framework can also handle the more interesting sit- uation in which only the temporal ordering of attributes is speciﬁed—for example, for the entering vehicle cat- egory we expect to see person detected → person not detected, but we likely do not know exactly when the transition occurs. In this case there can be many attribute sequences that are consistent with the speciﬁed ordering, and we can deﬁne the similarity between a video x and a cate- gory y as the best value over that set (which we will call A): s(ˆa(x), a(y)) = arg max a(y)∈A T X t=1 σ(ˆa(xt), a(y, t)) (3) One of the key ideas in this paper is that we can describe the set A using a composition of a small vocabulary of ﬁnite state machines, and we can frame recognition as ﬁnding the maximum weight path in that machine. We note that these machines can be either learned from data, or can be hand- speciﬁed. Here we pursue the latter approach; for clarity we review the fundamentals of ﬁnite state methods in the next section. 3.3 Background: Finite State Machines A ﬁnite state acceptor (FSA) is a directed graph whose edges are labeled with input symbols. Each vertex st represents a state of the machine at t