1. Dedicated Control Channel Approach In this approach, each user is equipped with two transceivers where the ﬁrst transceiver is used for channel agreement operating on the control channel while the second transceiver is used for data transmission on a data channel. MAC protocol design in this case is quite simple since every user can always have the knowledge of other users’ channel agreements and network state by listening to the control channel. Moreover, we can eﬃciently reduce loads for busy channels with large number of sharing users during the channel selection process. Operations of a multi-channel MAC protocol using the dedicated control channel approach 27 2.1 Research Background and RTS/CTS handshake is illustrated in .6. Here, RTS and CTS exchanges are performed on the control channel and the RTS and CTS packets can include information of channel agreements obtained by using certain channel selection criteria. Moreover, the RTS and CTS packets can also carry a NAV to inform the duration of busy time on the selected channel. After the successful RTS/CTS exchange, the user transmits data on the selected channel. 2. Common Hopping Approach Users are required to have only one transceiver in the common hopping approach; hence, they perform a channel agreement on one common channel . To achieve this goal, all users follow the same hopping pattern and they can negotiate to choose one data channel through exchanging the RTS/CTS control messages. After the channel selection, the involved pair of users stops the hopping and jumps to the chosen channel for data transmission. After the transmission is completed, the users return to the hopping pattern with other users. Detailed operations of this approach is illustrated in .7. 3. Split Phase Mechanism In this approach, the user is equipped with only one transceiver, which alternatively performs channel selection and data transmission in the control and data phases. A control channel is needed for channel agreement in the control phase; however, the control channel can be used for data transmission in the data phase. Active users again exchange RTS/CTS control packets on the control channel containing the chosen data channel (e.g., the idle channel with the lowest channel index). In the second data phase, all users start their data transmissions on the chosen channels. Note that one channel may be chosen by multiple users. If it is the case, further scheduling or contention would be performed in the data phase. Detailed operation of the split phase mechanism is illustrated in .8. 4. Parallel Rendezvous Approach Diﬀerent from the previous approaches, the parallel rendezvous approach allows multiple pairs of users to make simultaneously channel agreements on diﬀerent channels. Therefore, we can resolve the congestion problem due to the single control channel. However, a so- phisticated coordination is required to make successful channel agreements in this design. Toward this end, each transmitter can be assigned a hopping sequence and it then ﬁnds the intended receiver based on its hopping sequence. When both transmitter and receiver hops to the same channel, they can negotiate to choose the data channel for data communications. 28 2.2 Literature Review Further information for this approach can be found in the descriptions of the SSCH protocol and McMAC protocol . 2.1.3 Cognitive MAC Protocol for CRNs Diﬀerent from the conventional wireless networks, a CMAC protocol must perform both ex- ploration and exploitation of the spectrum holes in a dynamic manner because the spectrum holes are opportunistic resources . In addition, various practical constraints must be carefully considered in the CMAC design including the availability of a control channel for channel agreements and the number of available transceivers to perform contention, sensing, and transmission. In general, a good CMAC protocol should well balance between spectrum sensing and access times to achieve high spectrum utilization and network performance. Speciﬁcally, spectrum sensing should be designed so that minimum sensing time is re- quired while maintaining the target sensing performance (in terms of detection and/or false- alarm probabilities). Furthermore, spectrum sensing operations should be scheduled re- peated to timely detect PUs’ active status and avoid creating intolerable interference to PUs’ transmissions. Basic functions of the CMAC protocol include spectrum sensing, spectrum sharing, and control channel management , which are tightly coupled as illustrated in .9. While spectrum sensing is a physical layer functionality providing information about spectrum holes for the MAC layer, spectrum access aims at improving the spectrum utilization eﬃciency whilst assuring transparency and protection for PUs. Moreover, the spectrum sharing func- tion aims at coordinating the medium access, allocation, and sharing of spectrum holes for SUs, which can be implemented in either centralized or dist