• I/O functions for general matrices and 3D point clouds. • Utility functions for RGBD to/from 3D point cloud conversions. All the above algorithms operate on “raw", ConstDataMatrixMap- wrapped data. To facilitate common workflows, we also provide a convenience PointCloud class template that encapsulates point coordinates, normals, and colors, and provides basic point selection functionality, as well as a large number of helper methods for normal estimation, downsampling, and geometric transformations. In the 3D case, PointCloud instances are directly constructible from PLY files and RGBD image pairs. Spatial reasoning. Building on Qhull’s facilities and a simple feasibility solver, we provide a ConvexPolytope template that is constructed as either the convex hull of an input point set or the halfspace intersection defined by an input set of linear inequal- ity constraints, enabling seamless representation switching. Our SpaceRegion class represents arbitrary space regions as unions of convex polytopes. Both space representations implement set operations (intersection for ConvexPolytope, all common ones for SpaceRegion), interior point tests, volume calculation, and can be transformed geometrically. Clustering/segmentation. cilantro provides four standard clustering algorithms: a parallel, optimized k-means implementa- tion that can optionally use kd-trees for large numbers of clus- ters, three common spectral clustering variants that rely on Spectra, an arbitrary kernel mean-shift implementation, and a par- allelized, generic connected component segmentation algorithm that supports arbitrary point-wise similarity functions. We note that common segmentation tasks such as extracting Euclidean (see PCL’s EuclideanClusterExtraction) or smooth (see PCL’s RegionGrowing) segments can be straightforwardly cast as con- nected component segmentation under different similarity metrics. Iterative geometric registration. We provide a CRTP base class template that implements the top-level loop logic (alternating between correspondence estimation and transformation parameter optimization) of the Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm. The base template is parameterized by the correspondence estimation mechanism and the transform estimator. We implement a standard, kd-tree based correspondence search engine, which can operate on arbitrary point feature spaces, as well as one for correspondences by projective data association for the 3D case. We provide optimizers for both rigid and non-rigid (by means of a robustly regularized, locally rigid warp field) pairwise registration under the the point-to-point and point-to-plane metrics, as well as weighted combinations thereof. Our modular design can be easily extended to accommodate less common ICP processes (e.g., for multi-way registration). At the same time, cilantro provides useful shortcut wrappers/definitions for the more common registration workflows. Robust estimation. The library comes with a RANSAC tem- plate that is meant to be used as a CRTP base class and only imple- ments the top-level (random sampling/inlier evaluation) loop logic. We currently provide two general dimension RANSAC estimator instances: one for robust (hyper)plane fitting and one for rigid pair- wise point cloud alignment given (noisy) point correspondences. Visualization. cilantro implements a fully customizable, in- teractive, and easy to use 3D Visualizer class that supports: an ex- tensible set of renderable entities with adjustable rendering options, complete control over all projection parameters, both perspective