Stepwise model training procedure We introduce here an efficient approach for pushing the latent model to capture the underly- ing DS that generated the observations. Our approach rests on a step-wise procedure in which we gradually increase the importance of fitting the latent state dynamics as compared to fitting the observations. Since the latent state process and the observation process account for additive terms in the joint log-likelihood ( ), the tradeoff between fitting the dynamics and fitting the observations is regulated by the ratio of the two covariance matrices S and Γ (Eqs 1–3 and 5). Hence, the idea of our training scheme is to begin with fitting the observation model and putting milder constraints on the latent process, using a linear latent model for initialization in a first step [or even factor analysis which places no constraints on the temporal relationship among latent states; cf. 30], and then gradually decreasing “S:Γ” during training to enforce the temporal consistency of the latent model. Furthermore, one may force all burden of fitting the observations completely onto the latent model by fixing θobs from some step onwards. The complete training protocol is outlined in Algorithm-1. For inferring a linear model (LDS-SSM, LDS-BOLD-SSM), the exact same algorithm was used with φ(z) = max(z,0) just replaced by φ (z) = z in Eqs 1 and 2. Algorithm-1 0) Draw initial parameter estimates θ(0)~p(θ) from some suitable prior, constraint to max|eig(A+W)|<1 for biasing toward stable models [see also 18]. 1) Fix Σ = I and run linear dynamical system (LDS) SSM for initializa- tion ! θ(1) 2) Fix Σ = I and run PLRNN-SSM inference ! θ(2) 3) for i = 1:3 - Fix Σ = diag(10−i), B = B(2); fix Γ = Γ(2) (for fMRI data) - Initialize PLRNN-SSM training with previous estimate θ(i+1) - Run PLRNN-SSM inference ! θ(i+2) 4) Re-estimate state covariance matrix Var(zt|x1:T) with Σ = I fixed. Reconstruction of benchmark dynamical systems We evaluated the performance of our PLRNN-SSM approach (and an LDS-SSM for compari- son), on two popular benchmark DS, the Lorenz equations and the van der Pol nonlinear oscil- lator (vdP). Within some parameter range, the 3-dimensional Lorenz system exhibits a chaotic attractor and the 2-dimensional vdP-system exhibits a limit cycle (see for parameter set- tings used, system equations, and sample trajectories of the systems). We were interested in solutions where the true system dynamics is not just reflected in the directly inferred posterior distribution p(Z|X) over the PLRNN states {z1:T} given the actual observations {x1:T}, but also in the model’s generative or prior distribution p(Z), i.e. whether the once estimated PLRNN when run on its own would produce similar trajectories with the same dynamical properties as the ground truth system. For evaluation, n = 100 samples of (standardized) trajectories of length T = 1000 were drawn from the ground truth systems using Runge-Kutta numerical integration and random initial conditions. PLRNN-SSMs were trained on these sample sets as described above for M = 5. . .20 latent states, using for the observations (see also ). To probe our stepwise Identifying nonlinear dynamical systems via generative RNNs with applications to fMRI PLOS Computational Biology | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007263 August 21, 2019 26 / 35 training protocol (Algorithm-1), PLRNN-SSM training under this protocol (termed ‘PLRNN-SSM-anneal’) was compared to simple EM training of the PLRNN-SSM started from random initializations of parameters (termed ‘PLRNN-SSM-random’; essentially just step 1 of Algorithm-1 with S directly fixed to 10−3) for M = {8, 10, 12, 14}. To quantify how well the true system dynamics was captured by the ‘free-running’ PLRNN (after training, but unconstrained by the observations), we used the Kullback-Leibler divergence defined across state space, i.e. integrating across space, not across time. Similar in spirit to the criteria defined for the classical delay embedding theorems [48–50], our measure therefore assessed the agreement between the original and reconstructed attractor geometries. Integrating across time (i.e., computing divergence between time series) is problematic for nonlinear DS, since two time series from the very same chaotic DS usually cannot be expected to overlap very well with even miniscule differences in initial conditions [cf. 51]. For the ground truth bench- mark systems, for which we have access to the true distribution ptrue(x) and the complete state space, this KL divergence can be computed directly in observation space and was defined as KLxðptrueðxÞ; pgenðxjzÞÞ≔ Z x2RNptrueðxÞlog ptrueðxÞ pgenðxjzÞ dx; ð8Þ where the integration is performed across x-space, and pgen(x|z) is the distribution across observa- tions generated from PLRNN simulations (i.e., after PLRNN-SSM training, but discarding the original set of time series observations Xobs = {x1:T} used for training). Hence, this measure assesses whether 