where umax = maxe∈E ue. R¨oglin and V¨ocking have extended the isolation lemma to the setting of integer, instead of binary, vectors. However, their result is not strong enough for our purposes as it bounds the probability of the event δ ≤ ε by εφm(umax + 1)2 from above for any ε ≥ 0. As this bound depends on umax it would only lead to a pseudo-polynomial upper tail bound on the number of iterations of the BP algorithm when combined with the results of . Our goal is, however, to obtain a polynomial tail bound that does not depend on the capacities. In the remainder of this section, we prove that the isolation lemma from can be signiﬁcantly strengthened when structural properties of the min-cost ﬂow problem are exploited. In the following we consider the residual network for a ﬂow f. For each edge eij in the original network that has less ﬂow than its capacity uij, we include an edge eij with capacity uij − fij in the residual network. Similarly, for each edge eij that has ﬂow greater than zero, we include the backwards edge eji with capacity fij in the residual network. We refer to Ahuja et al. for a more details about residual networks. As all capacities and budgets are integers, there is always a min-cost ﬂow that is integral. An additional property of our probabilistic model is that with probability one there do not exist two diﬀerent integer ﬂows with exactly the same costs. This follows directly from the fact that all costs are continuous random variables. Hence, without loss of generality we restrict our presentation in the following to the situation that the min-cost ﬂow is unique. In fact, Gamarnik et al. have not used δ, the diﬀerence in cost between the best and second-best integer ﬂow, to bound the number of iterations needed for BP to ﬁnd the unique optimal solution of MCF, but they have used another quantity ∆. They have deﬁned ∆ as the length of the cheapest cycle in the residual network of the min-cost ﬂow f ⋆. Note that ∆ is always non-negative. Otherwise, we could send one unit of ﬂow along a cheapest cycle. This would result in a feasible integral ﬂow with lower cost. With the same argument we can argue that ∆ must be at least as large as δ because sending one unit of ﬂow along a cheapest cycle results in a feasible integral ﬂow diﬀerent from f ⋆ whose costs exceed the costs of f ⋆ by exactly ∆. Hence any lower bound for δ is also a lower bound for ∆ and so it suﬃces for our purposes to bound the probability of the event δ ≤ ε from above. The isolation lemma we prove is based on ideas that Gamarnik et al. [6, Theorem 8.1] have developed to prove that the optimal solution of a min-cost ﬂow problem is unique with high