capsule layers, called routing procedure (Sec.2.2), presents the major bottleneck. Through runtime proﬁling, we further identify that the ineﬃcient execution of the rout- ing procedure originates from (i) tremendous data ac- cess to oﬀ-chip memory due to the massive unshare- able intermediate variables, and (ii) intensive synchro- nizations to avoid the potential write-after-read and write-after-write hazards on the limited on-chip stor- age. These challenges are induced by the unique fea- tures of the routing procedure execution, and cannot be addressed well via common NN optimization techniques as well as software-level on-chip memory management (e.g., reg- ister manipulation or shared memory multiplexing). To tackle CapsNets’ signiﬁcant oﬀ chip-memory ac- cess and intensive synchronization (induced by numer- ous aggregation operations in the routing procedure), we propose a processing-in-memory based hybrid com- puting architecture named PIM-CapsNet. At the high- est level, PIM-CapsNet continues to utilize GPU’s na- tive on-chip units as the host for fast processing CNN- type of layers such as Convolution and Fully-connected included in CapsNet. Meanwhile, by leveraging batch execution, PIM-CapsNet pipelines the host GPU ex- ecution with an oﬀ-chip in-memory solution that can eﬀectively accelerate CapsNet’s routing procedure. To enable the in-memory acceleration capability for the routing procedure (RP), we select one of the emerg- ing 3D stacked technologies, i.e., hybrid memory cube (HMC) , for RP’s design and integration. Because of HMC’s high internal and external memory band- width, and its unique logic layer for easy integration of computation logic, it has become a promising PIM platform . By leveraging HMC’s unique architectural features, our PIM-CapsNet design mitigates the data-intensive RP into HMC to tackle its major challenges above. There are two key objectives for this in-memory design for RP: under the hardware design constraints, creating a hierarchical optimization strategy to enable (i) inter-vault workload balance and communication minimization (Sec.5.1 and 5.3) and (ii) intra-vault maximum parallel processing (Sec.5.2 and 5.3). Additionally, the in-memory optimizations should be generally applicable to diﬀerent RP algorithms. For objective (i), we further investigate RP’s algo- rithm and identify an interesting feature: highly paral- lelizable in multi-dimensions. This makes RP’s work- loads have great potential to be concurrently executed across vaults without incurring signiﬁcant communica- tion overheads. We then create a modeling strategy by considering both per-vault workloads and inter-vault communication to guide dimension selection for paral- lelization, in order to achieve the optimal performance and power improvement. This also signiﬁcantly reduces the original synchronization overheads through the con- version to aggregation within a vault. For objective (ii), we integrate multiple processing elements (PEs) into a vault’s logic layer and explore the customized PE design to concurrently perform RP’s speciﬁc operations across memory banks. Meanwhile, we propose a new address mapping scheme that eﬀectively transfers many inter- vault level data requests to the intra-vault level and address the bank conﬂict issues of concurrent data re- quests. Furthermore, to reduce logic design complexity and guarantee performance, we use simple low-cost logic to approximate complex special functions with negligi- ble accuracy loss. To summarize, this study makes the following contributions: • We conduct a comprehensive characterization study on CapsNet inference on modern GPUs and iden- tify its root causes for execution ineﬃciency. • Based on the interesting insights from the charac- terization and further algorithm analysis, we pro- pose a processing-in-memory based hybrid com- puting architecture named PIM-CapsNet, which leverages both GPU on-chip computing capabil- ity and oﬀ-chip in-memory acceleration features of 3D stacked memory to improve the overall Cap- sNet inference performance. • To drastically reduce the identiﬁed performance bottlenecks, we propose several memory-level op- timizations to enable minimal in-memory commu- nication, maximum parallelization, and low design complexity and overhead. • The experimental results demonstrate that for the overall CapsNet inference, our proposed PIM- Cap- sNet design outperforms the baseline GPU by 2.44x (upto 2.76x) on performance and 64.91% (upto 85.16%) on energy saving. It also achieves good performance scalability with increasing network size. 2. BACKGROUND: CAPSULE NETWORK As shown in , CapsNet inherits the convolutional (Conv) and fully connected (FC) layers from the stan- dard CNNs, but introduces new layers (i.e., Caps layers) to realize the concept of“capsule”for better information representation. A capsule is a group of neurons ( ) 2 nstruction Decoding PrimaryCaps Layer Last Caps Layer Fully-Connected Layer Convolutional Laye