IV. APPROACH A. Rigid Body Dynamics To simulate the dynamics of a rigid body system, we integrate the Newton-Euler equation τ = H(q)¨q + C(q, ˙q) + G(q). (1) H(q) gives the generalized inertial matrix of the system for conﬁguration q, and C(q, ˙q) describes the centrifugal and Coriolis terms affecting motion. G(q) describes the contribution from gravity. Given a descriptive model consisting of joints, bodies, and predecessor/successor relationships, we build a kinematic chain that speciﬁes the dynamics of the system. From a mechanism’s position vector q, the forward kinematics function KIN(·) computes the positions and orientation quaternions of the geometries attached to the kinematic chain (such as the end-effector of a robot arm) in world coordinates. Forward dynamics, computed by FD(·) is the mapping from positions, velocities and forces to accelerations. We efﬁciently compute forward dynamics using the Articulated Body Algorithm (ABA) , that propagates forces through the bodies while adhering to the motion subspaces deﬁned by the joints that connect them. In our simulator, bodies comprise physical entities with mass, inertia, and attached rendering and collision geometries. Joints describe constraints on the relative motion of bodies in a model. Equipped with such a graph of n bodies connected via joints with forces acting on them, ABA computes the joint accelerations ¨q in O(n) operations. B. Integration Unless speciﬁed otherwise, we represent the mechanism’s state x by [q, ˙q] so that the change in state ˙x corresponds to [ ˙q, ¨q]. A mechanism is parameterized by the real vector θ. Such parameters can, depending on the particular system, contain values for the geometries of the links, inertia properties, and other settings that inﬂuence the dynamics of the mechanism. Resulting from the forward dynamics f, a new change in state ˙x(ti) is computed using ABA at each time step 1Generalized coordinates sparsely encode only particular degrees of freedom in the kinematic chain so that connected bodies remain connected. ti given the previous state x(ti−1) and parameters θ. Such relationship forms an ordinary differential equation (ODE) ˙x(ti) = f(x(ti−1), ti, θ), which is solved for the next state x(ti) through an integrator. We leverage several methods to solve ODEs, from a simple Euler integrator, through explicit stepping schemes like fourth-order Runge-Kutta (RK4), to adaptive stepping algorithms, such as Dormand- Prince (commonly referred to as RK45) method. In order to simulate a system, the ODE is solved for a sequence of time steps ti ∈ [t0, . . . , tT ]. Throughout this work we consider equidistant time intervals with an integration step size ∆t. The smaller the step size, the more accurate the simulation, but the more ODE system evaluations are necessary. Larger time steps improve the execution performance of the simulator but yield decreased accuracy, particularly in chaotic systems. C. Parameter Estimation We are interested in the behavior of this ODE system with respect to changes in its parameters, θ, and to its control inputs, u. Parameters of note are the continuous parameters describing the inertia and geometry of links and joint attachments. Discrete parameters, describing the structure of the system, are fundamentally interesting, but are not considered in this method. Given a cost function c : X → R evaluated over states evaluated at times ti, the overall loss L is deﬁned as follows: L = X t c(x(ti)). (2) Note that the gradient ∂L ∂θ only becomes available by integrat- ing over the dynamics f so that the parameters inﬂuence the system states. Typically, for parameter estimation, the loss is the distance ||x(ti) − x∗(ti)||2 2 between the simulated states x(ti) and the states from a reference trajectory x∗(ti), which can be given from a real physical system or another simulation with unknown parameters. This approach is known as an initial value problem (IVP) and has an important application in simulation-to-reality (sim2real) transfer learning, where the reality gap between the agent’s dynamics model and the real world dynamics needs to be sufﬁciently small for the agent to operate in the real world (cf. ). D. Analytical Differentiation In order to estimate parameters, we seek to minimize through gradient-based optimization. Such an approach requires calculating gradients of the parameters θ with respect to the ODE solution x(ti), which is known as Continuous Sensitivity Analysis and has a wide range of applications . Historically, the two primary methods for computing derivatives through complex systems have been numerical and analytical derivation. Analytical (symbolic) derivation gives the user a chance to hand-optimize calculations, but is inﬂexible and error-prone, as gradients of any new dynamics elements must be determined separately. E. Numerical Differentiation A numerical approximation to the analytical gradients can be obtained through ﬁnite differences. This approach is an one