3.2 Reconﬁgurable Latent Structure One key contribution of this paper is incorporating latent structure in deep model. Given diﬀerent activity videos, the starting anchor frame and the number of input frames for each model clique can be variant. To illustrate it, we present a toy example in , in which three model cliques represented by diﬀerent colors are presented. Accordingly, the whole activity is decomposed into three action segments. The starting frame for each clique is ﬂexible and the video is not evenly segmented. In this scheme, a clique is trained to handle the missing data by inactivating parts of the neurons. In other words, for the clique whose input anchor frame number is less than m, part of the neurons in the network are inactivated, as represented by the dotted blank circles in the ﬁrst and third model cliques. Given input segments, classiﬁcation on activities can be achieved with the deep model by performing forward propagation. Formally, given a video sample, we deﬁne the index of starting anchor frames for M cliques as (s1, ..., sM) and the corresponding number of input frames are (t1, ..., tM) where 1 ≤ ti ≤ m. Thus, the latent variables for our model can be represented as H = (s1, ..., sM, t1, ..., tM), which infers the video segments for each model clique. Given the in- put video X, latent variables H, and model parameters ω (including diﬀerent layer parameters and biases), we rep- resent the classiﬁcation results obtained by our model as F(X, ω, H), which is a vector of the probabilities for each activity. For simplicity, we deﬁne the probability for the ith activity as Fi(X, ω, H). Note that our model explicitly decomposes the input ac- tivity into sub-actions by incorporating the latent variables. But the sub-actions will be not directly co-related with se- mantic meaning. The diﬀerent values of M (i.e. the number of sub-actions for one activity) will aﬀect the ﬁnal classiﬁca- tion performance. When there is only one clique, the recon- ﬁgurability would be disregarded, and our model is simpli- ﬁed as the traditional CNN such as , which is compared in Sect. 6. We can empirically tune M, just like setting the number of parts for the deformable part-based model in ob- ject detection. The model with a small M could be less ex- pressive to handle activity temporal variations, while a large M could lead to over-ﬁtting for the high model complexity. In practice, we can roughly estimate M using traditional pa- rameter tuning methods, e.g., the cross validation. We have shown the eﬀectiveness of our method by setting M = 4 on the databases.