approach for generating tests is to turn bugs into test cases (5c) by writing tests that trigger a bug that has been found in the code and (once fixed) will prevent the bug from reappearing unnoticed. In combination these kinds of testing can improve our confidence that scientific code is operating properly and that the results it produces are valid. An additional benefit of testing is that it encourages programmers to design and build code that is testable (i.e., self-contained functions and classes that can run more or less independently of one another). Code that is designed this way is also easier to understand and more reusable. No matter how good one’s computational practice is, reason- ably complex code will always initially contain bugs. Fixing bugs that have been identified is often easier if you use a symbolic debugger (5d) to track them down. A better name for this kind of tool would be ‘‘interactive program inspector’’ since a debugger allows users to pause a program at any line (or when some condition is true), inspect the values of variables, and walk up and down active function calls to figure out why things are behaving the way they are. Debuggers are usually more productive than adding and removing print statements or scrolling through hundreds of lines of log output , because they allow the user to see exactly how the code is executing rather than just snapshots of state of the program at a few moments in time. In other words, the debugger allows the scientist to witness what is going wrong directly, rather than having to anticipate the error or infer the problem using indirect evidence. Optimize Software Only after It Works Correctly Today’s computers and software are so complex that even experts find it hard to predict which parts of any particular program will be performance bottlenecks . The most productive way to make code fast is therefore to make it work correctly, determine whether it’s actually worth speeding it up, and—in those cases where it is—to use a profiler to identify bottlenecks (6a). This strategy also has interesting implications for choice of programming language. Research has confirmed that most programmers write roughly the same number of lines of code per unit time regardless of the language they use . Since faster, lower level, languages require more lines of code to accomplish the same task, scientists are most productive when they write code in the highest-level language possible (6b), and shift to low- level languages like C and Fortran only when they are sure the performance boost is needed. (Using higher-level languages also helps program comprehensibility, since such languages have, in a sense, ‘‘pre-chunked’’ the facts that programmers need to have in short-term memory.) Taking this approach allows more code to be written (and tested) in the same amount of time. Even when it is known before coding begins that a low-level language will ultimately be necessary, rapid prototyping in a high-level language helps programmers make and evaluate design decisions quickly. Programmers can also use a high-level prototype as a test oracle for a high-performance low-level reimplementation, i.e., compare the output of the optimized (and usually more complex) program against the output from its unoptimized (but usually simpler) predecessor in order to check its correctness. Document Design and Purpose, Not Mechanics In the same way that a well documented experimental protocol makes research methods easier to reproduce, good documentation helps people understand code. This makes the code more reusable and lowers maintenance costs . As a result, code that is well documented makes it easier to transition when the graduate students and postdocs who have been writing code in a lab transition to the next career phase. Reference documentation and descriptions of design decisions are key for improving the understandability of code. However, inline documentation that recapitulates code is not useful. Therefore we recommend that scientific programmers document inter- faces and reasons, not implementations (7a). For example, a clear description like this at the beginning of a function that describes what it does and its inputs and outputs is useful: PLOS Biology | www.plosbiology.org 4 January 2014 | Volume 12 | Issue 1 | e1001745 def scan op, values, seed~None ð Þ: # Apply a binary operator cumulatively to the values given # from lowest to highest, returning a list of results: # For example, if 0op0 is 0add0 and 0values0 is 0 1,3,5 ½ 0, # the result is 0 1, 4, 9 ½ 0 (i:e:, the running total of the # given values): The result always has the same length as # the input: # If 0seed0 is given, the result is initialized with that # value instead of with the first item in 0values0, and # the final item is omitted from the result: # Ex : scan add, 1, 3, 5 ½ , seed~10 ð Þ # produces 10, 11, 14 ½  :::implementation::: In contrast, the comment in the code fragment below does nothing to aid 