III. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM FORMULATION This section describes problem formulations and the models needed for energy efﬁciency optimization. A. Position Prediction Model . A mmWave network for HST. . Bird view of the mmWave network. Consider a network model as shown in , where the distance from a BS to the rail is denoted by d0 and the inter-BS distance by dl. We assume that the total number of segments is even and from symmetry, we only need to consider the half of the model, i.e., the coverage of a BS is divided into 2N beams (N = 2 in ), and the coverage of the ith beam is di, di can be computed from the geometry. We assume that only periodic feedback from TCS can provide an accurate current position and a velocity estimate, the communication system uses this information to predict the position of the train until the next update is available. The predicted positions are used to determine the time of beam switching. Assume that the speed of the train is constant, notice that trains with large mass cannot accelerate or decelerate rapidly, so this assumption is reasonable. Then the position can be modeled as x(t) = v(t − t0) + x0, (1) where x0 is the feedback location, and t0 is the time of the feedback. Without loss of generality, we set x0 = 0 and t0 = 0. B. The Realistic Direction Antenna Model In this paper, we adopt the widely used realistic directional antenna model, which is a main lobe of Gaussian form in linear scale and constant level of sidelobes . It is the reference antenna model with sidelobe for IEEE 802.15.3c. 4 And we assume that the Doppler effect of the channel has been eliminated by modulation methods . The gain of a directional antenna in units of decibels (dB), which is denoted by G(θ), can be expressed as G(θ) = ( G0 − 3.01 · ( 2θ θ−3dB ) 2, 0◦ ≤ θ ≤ θml/2 Gsl, θml/2 ≤ θ ≤ 180◦ , (2) where θ denotes an arbitrary angle within the range [0, 180◦], θ−3dB denotes the angle of the half-power beamwidth, and θml denotes the main lobe width in units of degrees. The relationship between θml and θ−3dB is θml = 2.6 · θ−3dB. G0 is the maximum antenna gain, and this can be obtained by G0 = 10 log  1.6162 sin (θ−3dB/2) 2 , (3) The sidelobe gain Gsl can be expressed as Gsl = −0.4111 · ln(θ−3dB) − 10.579. (4) C. Receive Power Model The RX power is modeled as P dBm rx = P dBm tx + Gtx + Grx − W + 10n log10 λ 4πd, (5) where, P dBm rx and P dBm tx are the RX and TX powers, Grx and Gtx are the RX and TX antenna gains, W is the shadowing margin, λ is the carrier wavelength, and d is the distance from the BS to the mobile relay on the train. We can approximate Grx and Gtx with G0, and compute the d as a function of time, then the RX power is modeled as P dBm rx (t) = P dBm tx + 2G0 − W + 10n log10 λ 4πd(t). (6) Denoting B the system bandwidth, and NF the noise ﬁgure of the receiver chain, we model thermal noise as P dBm noise = −174 + 10 log10 B + NF. (7) The received SNR is determined by not only the received signal power but also the noise power and can be expressed as , SNR(t) = Prx(t) Pnoise . (8) D. Problem Formulation As we know, the transmission power allocation is a key mechanism to energy consumption, if the transmission power can be allocated properly, the energy consumption will be reduced greatly, therefore, the transmission power should be optimized to achieve high energy efﬁciency. Here, we formu- late the transmission power optimization problem to minimize energy consumption. The energy efﬁciency optimization problem of train-ground mmWave communication can be formulated as max EE, (9) where EE denotes the energy efﬁciency and can be expressed as EE = D E , (10) D denotes the total amount of transmission data and the total energy consumption is E. When maximizing the energy efﬁciency, we only need to minimize the energy consumption and ensure that the amount of data is greater than a certain value simultaneously, then the problem of (10) can be transformed as follows:  min E s.t. D ≥ Dfixed , (11) Assume that the transmission power at each segment is a constant Pi, then the total energy consumption can be expressed as E = P i Pit. Notice that t = di v , the problem of (11) can be expressed as    min N P i=1 di v Pi s.t. D ≥ Dfixed . (12) This is a nonlinear minimization problem where objective function is a linear function about Pi and both di and v can be seen as a constant, and the constraint indicates that Pi ≥ 0, i ∈ [1, N]. To reduce the energy consumption, we should ensure the total amount of transmission data. Now, we analyze the system constraint of this optimization problem. First, according to the Shannon capacity formula, the achievable data rate is deter- mined by the received SNR , , and the instantaneous rate is formulated as R(t) = log2 (1 + SNR(t)), (13) Based on the linear position prediction model, the system will switch to the ith beam at time Pi−1 j=1 dj/v and keeps this beam until time Pi j=1 dj/v, then the total amount of transmission data of the ith beam is Di 