Method Run Time (s) Actual # of Exp. Nodes Total # of Nodes (Esti.) Percentage (%) EBK-D1 0.034 2, 334 13, 005 17.9 EBK-D2 0.383 36, 818 351, 135 10.5 EBK-D3 7.422 460, 469 9, 480, 645 4.9 EBK-D4 173.710 9, 096, 338 255, 977, 415 3.6 (a) Mapping from the traces on G to GH (b) Graph aggregation : Illustration of the mapping process to GH and the graph aggregation process used by the EBK search. Considering that the convex hull property in Prop. 1 is a sufﬁcient but not necessary condition, directly using Prop. 1 for feasibility checking may be conservative. Actually, there is a non-conservative approach for feasibility checking by using the closed-form solutions of the extremas of the uniform B- spline. Take the ﬁfth-degree uniform B-spline as an example. The B-spline can be rewritten in a monomial basis according to . The velocity proﬁle is a degree-4 polynomial whose extremas can be checked by ﬁnding the roots of its derivative (degree-3) in closed form. For traditional kinodynamic planners , collision checking is an expensive process and may become the compu- tation bottleneck of the algorithm . Position-only shortest path search on the graph of the cell decompositions does not require collision checking since the piecewise linear connec- tion between cell centers is restricted to collision-free cells. For the proposed method, given the B-spline parameterization of degree k and cell size of the decomposed environment, the B-spline may deviate from the piecewise linear connection due to the fact that it does not exactly pass through the control points. However, the maximum distance that the B- spline curve deviates from the piecewise linear collection can be characterized ofﬂine, which is compensable by moderate obstacle inﬂation. The inﬂation needed is characterized in Appendix C. In practice, since the degree of the B-spline is ﬁxed and the cell size is not tuned frequently, the inﬂation can be calculated once and then used for many experiments. E. Efﬁcient Low Dispersion Search Before proposing the efﬁcient methods, we present a com- plexity analysis of the OBK search. According to the deﬁnition of the k-degree vertex tuple, the total number of vertices VH of the graph GH grows exponentially w.r.t. the degree k of B-spline parameterization, i.e., |VH| = O(|V |k+1). Note that DING et al.: AN EFFICIENT B-SPLINE-BASED KINODYNAMIC REPLANNING FRAMEWORK FOR QUADROTORS 9 Algorithm 3 Given a k-degree vertex tuple ˆv ∈ VH, assign an integer index based on the selected coordinates of the tuple. 1: function INDEX(ˆv, d) 2: I(ˆv) = ∅; 3: for all i ∈ {k − d + 1, . . . , k} do 4: I(ˆv) ← I(ˆv) ∪ COORD(ˆv[i]) 5: return UNIQUEENCODE(I(ˆv)) according to Prop. 2, Algo. 1 shares a similar complexity with the execution of Dijkstra’s algorithm on the graph GH if the heuristic is set to zero. According to the known result that each vertex is expanded at most once for Dijkstra’s algorithm (see ), the maximum number of iterations of Algo. 1 is upper bounded by |VH| = O(|V |k+1), which characterizes the worst-case execution time of the OBK search. Actually, since |VH| and |EH| grow exponentially with k, the worst- case execution time of any algorithm that optimally solves Problem 1 scales exponentially with k. Given the observation that the state in the OBK search is homogeneous (i.e., all the dimensions are control point coordinates), we can aggregate the nodes of GH based on the proximity of the coordinates to gain efﬁciency. Speciﬁcally, according to Algo. 2, each vertex ˆv ∈ VH is marked with a unique integer index. In the modiﬁed INDEX(·) function in Algo. 3, we encode the vertex ˆv only based on the coordinates for the last d vertices such that the vertices which share the same partial coordinates will be regarded as the same node. By aggregating the nodes of GH, the dimension of the search space is directly controlled by the user-speciﬁed parameter d. The modiﬁcation essentially conducts a low dispersion search on the high-dimensional graph GH with a control on the number of expanded nodes. Different d values will determine how the vertex tuples are aggregated, which in turn affects the solution quality and algorithm efﬁciency. Note that although the search space is reduced, the continuity and smoothness of the resultant trajec- tory is maintained since the modiﬁcation preserves the sharing of the B-spline coordinates. The resultant search method is called EBK search and a formal analysis of the EBK search is provided in Sect. V-F. F. Analysis of the EBK Search As introduced in Sect. V-E, the user-speciﬁed parameter d determines how vertex tuples in the graph GH are aggregated. We provide a toy example of d = 1 in (b) to understand the graph aggregation. When choosing d = 1, as in (b), vertex tuples are aggregated based on the last vertex of the tuple. For instance, ˆv4 and ˆv5 share the same last vertex and are aggregated into the same node, as marked in purple. In the same way, the three distinct nodes ˆv6, ˆv7 and ˆv8