IEEE JSTARS 1 Sparsity Constrained Distributed Unmixing of Hyperspectral Data Sara Khoshsokhan, Student Member, IEEE, Roozbeh Rajabi, Member, IEEE, and Hadi Zayyani, Member, IEEE Abstract Spectral unmixing (SU) is a technique to characterize mixed pixels in hyperspectral images measured by remote sensors. Most of the spectral unmixing algorithms are developed using the linear mixing models. To estimate endmembers and fractional abundance matrices in a blind problem, nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) and its developments are widely used in the SU problem. One of the constraints which was added to NMF is sparsity, that was regularized by Lq norm. In this paper, a new algorithm based on distributed optimization is suggested for spectral unmixing. In the proposed algorithm, a network including single-node clusters is employed. Each pixel in the hyperspectral images is considered as a node in this network. The sparsity constrained distributed unmixing is optimized with diffusion least mean p-power (LMP) strategy, and then the update equations for fractional abundance and signature matrices are obtained. Afterwards the proposed algorithm is analyzed for different values of LMP power and Lq norms. Simulation results based on deﬁned performance metrics illustrate the advantage of the proposed algorithm in spectral unmixing of hyperspectral data compared with other methods. Index Terms Spectral unmixing, hyperspectral images, sparsity constraint, LMP strategy, remote sensing, distributed optimiza- tion. I. INTRODUCTION Remote sensors gather data by detecting the energy that is reﬂected from the Earth. Recent advances in remote sensing have paved the way for the development of hyperspectral sensors. One of the challenges in hyperspectral imaging is mixed pixels. Pixels in a scene constituting a single material are called pure pixels and other pixels containing more than one material are called mixed pixels . So, the recorded spectrum of a single pixel is a mixture of some material spectra in the scene, named endmembers. The contribution of each endmember for a given pixel is weighted by its fractional abundance . Decomposition of the mixed pixels is known as spectral unmixing (SU) problem . Most of the spectral unmixing methods are based on linear mixing model (LMM), in which it is assumed that the recorded spectrum of a particular pixel, is linearly mixed by endmembers which exist The authors are with the Communications and Electronics Department, Faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Qom University of Technology, Qom, Iran (e-mail: khoshsokhan.s@qut.ac.ir; rajabi@qut.ac.ir; zayyani@qut.ac.ir). Dr. Zayyani is also with the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran. February 21, 2019 DRAFT arXiv:1902.07593v1 [cs.CV] 20 Feb 2019 2 IEEE JSTARS in the pixel. In return, several researches have done by adopting nonlinear mixing model. In this model, considered pix