C. Network Architecture Based on the analysis in Section II-B, the SOGNN and MOGNN are hereby constructed and investigated. The output patterns of both forms are then illustrated. 1) SOGNN Model: According to the theoretical analysis above, the architecture of SOGNN is constructed. As is shown in , the network architecture of SOGNN consists of three layer, including input layer, hidden layer and output layer. Let x = [x1, x2, . . . , xm] denotes the m-dimensional input vector, and all of the input data should be normalized to . In this model, the m neurons in input layer and the single neuron in output layer are both chosen linear in our model. Besides, the activation functions in hidden layer are a series of GEFs {Gλ l (x)|l = 1, 2, · · · , L}, and L denotes the total amount of 4 hidden neurons. Thus, the output of SOGNN in this case can be expressed as follow: ψ(x) = L X l=1 wlGλ l (x) = G(x)w, (13) where G(x) = [Gλ 1(x), Gλ 2(x), · · · , Gλ L(x)] denotes the Gegenbauer activation vector with respect to x, G(x) actually maps the m-dimensional input space to the L-dimensional hidden layer feature space, and w = [w1, w2, · · · wL]T ∈ RL denotes the connecting weights vector. If the number of samples is S, their outputs can be written in matrix form, i.e., Ψ(x) = Gw, (14) where Ψ(x) = [ψ(x1), ψ(x2), · · · ψ(xs)]T and G = G(x1) G(x2) · · · G(xS)T =   Gλ 1(x1) Gλ 2(x1) · · · Gλ L(x1) Gλ 1(x2) Gλ 2(x2) · · · Gλ L(x2) ... ... ... ... Gλ 1(xS) Gλ 2(xS) · · · Gλ L(xS)   ∈ RS×L, Based on Theorem 2 (speciﬁcally, Eq. (11) and (12), with L large enough and optimal weights, ψ(x) can best approximate the target function φ(x). Also, in this model, all the input weights are ﬁxed to be 1, and the threshold values for all neurons are ﬁxed to be 0. Notably, the aforementioned parametric settings can ef- fectively simplify the network architecture, lower the com- putational complexity, make it more convenient for future implementation on hardware, and have been proved effective in previous works , . Even more, such parametric simpliﬁcation, on one hand, maintains the approximation capability and the optimality of the network since the network (shown in ) with the aforementioned parametric settings well matches the theoret- ical analysis in Eq. (14) and (12). On the other hand, such ﬁxed parametric settings could also improve the robustness of the model when faced with disturbance in input. According to , , when the input weights and hidden layer biases are randomly assigned, the robustness could be poor, since the changes of the output weights matrix sometimes could be very large when input disturbance is encountered, which will result in increasing risk of network. Further, with activation functions being orthogonal ele- mentary functions, our model prevents the hidden activation matrix G from being not full column rank and ill-conditioned, according to orthogonal polynomials theory . Also, with GTG being invertible, the direct computing of (GTG)−1 can be easily obtained. Notably, this sets the basis of the computational robustness of the proposed method in Section III-B . 2) MOGNN Model: As is shown in , the MOGNN model is constructed based on SOGNN. To be more speciﬁc, the MOGNN with K outputs consists of K SOGNN. The output of MOGNN is K-dimensional vector, where ψ(x) = [ψ(x)1, ψ(x)2, . . . , ψ(x)K] and the kth output of MOGNN . The network architecture of GNN. ψ(x)k is the output of the kth SOGNN. The parametric settings is the same as the settings of SOGNN. The output of kth output node is given below: ψ(x)k = Lk X lk=1 wlkGλ l (x) = G(x)w, (15) III. PROPOSED REGULARIZED WEIGHTS DIRECT DETERMINATION In this section, the detailed explanation of our proposed R-WDD for GNN is presented. First, the original WDD method is reviewed, after which the main drawbacks of it are discussed. Then, based on equality-constrained optimization, a method minimizing the empirical risks and structural risks with better generalization ability is provided, and the analysis of it is carried out in cases of two forms of GNN, respectively. Finally, the uniﬁed R-WDD for GNN weights determination under different cases are given. A. Review of the Original Weights Direct Determination According to the previous works in , , for a given GNN model, the objective loss function of WDD is: minimize: ∥ Ψ − Φ ∥2 2=∥ Gw − Φ ∥2 2 . (16) where Φ = [φ(x1), φ(x2), · · · φ(xs)]T is the label of s sam- ples. With WDD, the solution of the optimal output weights can be calculated by the following equation: w = (GTG)−1GTΦ = G†Φ, (17) where (GTG)−1GT is the Moore-Penrose generalized inverse of activation matrix G, also termed as G†. According to , there are several methods to calculate the Moore-Penrose generalized inverse of a matrix: orthogo- nal projection method, iterative method and singular values decomposition (SVD). Since the WDD directly calculates the least-square solution involving an inversion of a matrix, the speed of calculation can be guaran