Software Architecture Our software architecture consists of three main modules: a Parser module used to load neural network models and parameters from a variety of storage formats; an Abstract Representation module used to represent and process neural network models; and a Code Generator module that generates a set of source code ﬁles for implementing the neural network on a microcontroller. We have based our architecture on common object-oriented design patterns , which simpliﬁes extending nn4mc to include support for new deep learning framework formats, model and parameter ﬁle formats, and target microcontrollers. To achieve the multiple-source-multiple-target goal, we convert the neural network model into an abstract graph representation of the neural network (Neu- ral Network) to then generate the code. This interface allows us to maintain our own format and have Parser and Code Generator adapt their inner workings to ﬁt this abstract representation without having to interact with each other. Data structures We create our own data structures to maintain uniformity and control on the internal representation of data within nn4mc, while mininimizing memory and computational requirements: 1. Tensor stores highly dimensional matrices and tensors in a single string; it also contains the necessary operations to map this string into usable vectors and matrices. 2. Weight is a collection of a Tensor pointer and a layer id. 3. Layer is an abstract class that contains multiple derived classes, which are the diﬀerent layer types that a neural network can have. This currently includes Conv1D, Conv2D, MaxPooling1D, MaxPooling2D, and Flatten. 4. NeuralNetwork is a directed graph that represents a trained model as con- nections between layers which act as the nodes. It also associates all data structures related to a layer with the corresponding node and it is the central data structure of the software. Parser Parser is an abstract class created to load trained models from any given format into nn4mc. We use HDF5C++ and nlohmann/json to parse .hdf5 and .json ﬁles and transverse through the layer graph represented 6 Aguasvivas Manzano, S., Hughes, D., Simpson, C., Patel, R., Correll, N. in binary in C++. The parser loads the neural network architecture along with the weights from a ﬁle exported from a neural network training package. It is the interface between the model and the abstract representation. This class breaks down the parsed model into the components needed to create and link the layer nodes that NeuralNetwork needs. Its build nn() method exports a pointer to a NeuralNetwork object from a parsed object which is the abstract graph repre- sentation needed to generate the feed forward code. New support for diﬀerent neural network model ﬁle formats may be added through derived classes from Parser. An example on how to use the parser class is under the example folder in the repository. Each parsing type requires two additional modules: LayerBuilder and LayerFactory. LayerBuilder This class links the parsed attributes of a speciﬁc layer with the attributes of the layer in our internal neural network representation. This class has derived classes, such as Conv2DBuilder and DenseBuilder, which individu- ally create a pointer to a layer object and their associated attribute deﬁnitions. LayerFactory This class contains an associative container (std::map) that maps from the parsed layer type name to a pointer to a LayerBuilder object. For instance, Parser read the ﬁrst layer and found out that this layer is a Dense layer; then it looks up the corresponding Layer type that it needs to create, LayerFactory allows Parser to instantiate a LayerBuilder based on that layer type that it parsed. Abstract Representation The abstract representation of a trained model loaded through Parser is achieved through the NeuralNetwork class – a graph data structure. This abstract representation allows for two important features of the nn4mc software package. First, the code generation portion of this package needs only to interact with the abstract representation to obtain the necessary data for building the resultant code. This allows for the trained model to be imported in a multitude of formats. Parser handles the reading of this input and building of the NerualNetwork object which decouples the two halves of nn4mc – parsing and code generation. This makes nn4mc ﬂexible in its usage and scalable in scope. Second, the abstract representation of a trained neural network allows us to analyze its qualities and potentially manipulate its structure. LayerNodes LayerNode is an essential substructure of the overall NerualNet- work class. They represent the layers of the neural network and contain all associated data necessary for traversal and code generation. Most important in the layer representation is a pointer to a Layer object created in the parsing that each LayerNode structure contains. Similarly, each LayerNode contains a list of the