Problem Formulation We are given a graph G = {V, E, X} as input, where V denotes the set of vertices and v ∈ V represents a node in V. E ⊆ V × V de- notes the edges. A ∈ RN ×N is the adjacency matrix, where Aij = 1 denotes a link exists between vi and vj, and otherwise Aij = 0. X ∈ RN ×D is the associated attributes, xi denotes the attributes of the vi. In our settings of recommender systems, we focus on bipar- tite networks consisting of users and items. For simplicity, v may denote either type of nodes in G. The goal of our model is to learn a nonlinear hash function that maps a node v to hamming space, i.e. H : V → h ∈ {−1, 1}K. Specifically, we first build a graph encoder ϕ : V → u ∈ Rd to generate intermediate representation for the node. Then, the intermediate representation is fed into a hash layer ψ : u → h to learn binary hash codes. We denote Θϕ and Θψ as trainable parameters for the graph encoder and hash layer, respectively. To measure the fitness of H in an unsupervised manner, we consider a differentiable computational graph that takes a pair of nodes vi and vj as inputs, and measures the probability that determines the existence of corresponding linkage. Assuming that L denotes the loss function. The goal of obtaining {hi;i = 1, ..., N } is to solve for Θϕ, Θψ via minimizing L(A|X, Θϕ, Θψ ). 3.2 Graph Encoder As introduced above, ϕ is a graph encoder that takes graph as input and outputs an intermediate vector ui for any node vi. In general, the choice of ϕ is very flexible and can be instantiated by any deep representation methods as discussed in . In this work, we con- sider a two-layer graph convolutional network GCN . The major step of embedding generation in GCN is to aggregate information from a node’s local neighbors. Let ul i denote the representation of node vi on layer of depth l, then the forward propagation rule is: ul i = σ(Wl · MEAN{ul−1 i ∪ {ul−1 j |∀vj ∈ N(vi)}}), (1) where Wl is the weight matrix on layer l, MEAN refers to the average aggregator over feature vectors of the current node and its neighborhood nodes, and N(vi) denotes the local neighborhood of vi. The final output is ui = ulmax i , where lmax denotes the depth of final layer. 3.3 Hash Code Embedding In this section, we introduce the forward propagation of the hash layer to generate binary hash codes for nodes in G. Given the intermediate representation ui of node vi, a fully-connected hash layer is adopted to transform ui into K-dimensional embedding vector zi ∈ RK as follows: zi = σ(WT ui + b), (2) where W ∈ Rd×K is the parameter matrix, b ∈ RK is the bias matrix. To enforce the resultant embedding to be binary, the activation function σ(·) is usually set as tanh function. In order to generate exactly binary hash code, we resort to convert the K-dimensional vector zi, which is continuous in nature, to binary code hi with values of either +1 or −1 by taking the sign function, so that: hi = siдn(zi) =  + 1, if zi ≥ 0 − 1, otherwise (3) Given the graph encoder and hash layer defined as above, a natural follow-up question is how to learn the parameters of our model. Different from classification learning tasks, where the label informa- tion is available to support supervised or semi-supervised learning, graph representation learning task often focuses on unsupervised learning, in which the goal is to generate similar vector embeddings for topologically similar nodes so that the graph structure could be preserved as much as possible. For each pair of node in G, the like- lihood function P(Aij |hi, hj) can be interpreted as the conditional probability that the link connection between vi and vj equals Aij given their hash codes hi and hj, which could be naturally defined as pairwise logistic function as follows P(Aij |hi, hj)) = ( σ(dist(hi, hj)), Aij = 1 1 − σ(dist(hi, hj)), Aij = 0, (4) where σ(·) is the standard sigmoid function, dist(·, ·) represents the distance measure. Note that there exists a nice relationship between hamming distance hamdist (·, ·) and inner product ⟨·, ·⟩ for binary hash codes, where hamdist (hi, hj) = 1 2(K − hi, hj ), thus we adopt inner product to define dist(·, ·). In this case, the smaller the hamming distance is, the larger the conditional prob- ability P(1|hi, hj) will be, and vice versa. Therefore, is a reasonable extension of logistic regression classifier for the pairwise classification problem based on hash codes. Hence, we can achieve the optimal parameters when the following loss function WWW ’20, April 20–24, 2020, Taipei, Taiwan Qiaoyu Tan, et al. layer 1 layer 2 Input Graph Graph Neural Networks hidden feature tanh sign + Cross-entropy Loss Ranking Loss Hash Layer ⨀ (1 − Q) ⨀ ' '~Bernoulli(1) : The architecture of HashGNN (better viewed in color). Our method consists of two main components: (1) a graph neural networks for learning deep representation of each node vi, (2) a fully-connected hash layer with tanh activation for transforming the deep representation into K-dimensio